Nine Chronicles project structure (#24)
planetarium/ninechronicles-devforum: docs/service-and-repository-structure/service-and-repository-structure.md

Each part of Nine Chronicles has common libraries to communicate each other.  
In this chapter, We'll check the core libraries to run Nine Chronicles.  
After read this chapter, you would know where to see and touch to modify Nine Chronicles as you wish.

## 3.1. 9c-launcher

#### [GitHub repository](https://github.com/planetarium/9c-launcher)

The repository for [Launcher](#2.1.-Launcher). You can build and run your own Nine Chronicles launcher using this repository.  
9c-launcher is mostly written in TypeScript and you can easily build and run launcher following [Getting Started](https://github.com/planetarium/9c-launcher/wiki/Getting-Started).  
If you build and run your launcher with default setting, the launcher will attach to Nine Chronicles mainnet(the production server).  
Otherwise you can attach to different(maybe your own) blockchain network, you can achieve that through editing `config.json` to change target network.
You can get the `config.json` for mainnet [here](https://download.nine-chronicles.com/9c-launcher-config.json) and the detailed document at [here](../the-structure-and-location-of-config-json.md).

## 3.2. Nine Chronicles.Headless

> #### [GitHub repository](https://github.com/planetarium/Nine Chronicles.Headless)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### [GitHub repository](https://github.com/planetarium/NineChronicles.Headless)
```

The repository for [Headless Server](#2.2.-Headless-Server). You can run your own blockchain node whether it is full node or not.  
Nine Chronicles.Headless is mostly written in C#. You can build and run your local headless server following [Getting Started](https://github.com/planetarium/Nine Chronicles.Headless/wiki/Getting-Started).
You can create and run your own blockchain network/node with this repository. Please check [Create new genesis block](https://github.com/planetarium/Nine Chronicles.Headless/wiki/Create-new-genesis-block) to create your own genesis block for your own network.

### 3.2.1. Remark

#### 3.2.1.1. Options for headless node

There are several functions can be run using this repository.

- Peer: save & spread available node addresses.
- RPC server: Receives transactions from client and broadcast them to peers.
- GraphQL server: Provides blockchain data and the node's status to answer incoming GQL query. You may send action data through this server.
- Miner: The actual block miner. Collects transactions from peer nodes and verify tx.s to mine a new block.

You can run one or more functionalities at the same time in one node.

> See [README](https://github.com/planetarium/Nine Chronicles.Headless/blob/main/README.md) for all available options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [README](https://github.com/planetarium/NineChronicles.Headless/blob/main/README.md) for all available options.
```

#### 3.2.1.2. Usage of MagicOnion

To make gRPC connection between Unity client and .NET server, we chose [MagicOnion](https://cysharp.github.io/MagicOnion/) as an implementation.  
This is well-made RPC framework to meet our requirements, and distributed under [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).  
Although we're not using MagicOnion's feature very well inside logic, but this information we're using MagicOnion is useful for first-time viewer.

## 3.3. Nine Chronicles

> #### [GitHub repository](https://github.com/planetarium/Nine Chronicles)

Reviewer: Because this line is for url, the `Nine Chronicles` should be `NineChronicles` (maybe typo)
```suggestion
#### [GitHub repository](https://github.com/planetarium/NineChronicles)
```

The unity client to play Nine Chronicles Game. You need Unity to build and run this game on your local computer.  

> Following [Getting Started](https://github.com/planetarium/Nine Chronicles/wiki/Get-Started), you can build and run your own Nine Chronicles client on your environment.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following [Getting Started](https://github.com/planetarium/NineChronicles/wiki/Get-Started), you can build and run your own Nine Chronicles client on your environment.  
```

---
title: Service and repository structure
---

# 1. Summary

NineChronicles(a.k.a. 9c) is role-playing game on blockchain. To achieve the game on blockchain, 9c runs with multiple
libraries in certain structure.  
In this document, you will understand how 9c is structured and interact each other. After that, you would know what
repository you should touch for your mod/utils.

# 2. Service Structure

![NineChronicles Service Structure](images/0001_service_structure.png)

NineChronicles has 3 parts in major. `Launcher`, `Headless Server`, `Unity Client` are those.  
In this chapter, We'll see each part in brief.

## 2.1. Launcher

`Launcher` is the one you execute to play game. This checks NineChronicles game version and updates `Launcher`
and [`Unity Client`](#2.3.-Unity-Client) to the latest version.  
After login in `Launcher`, the `Launcher` runs Unity client to play game with your logged-in account.  

> `Launcher` also has embedded [`Headless Server`](#2.2.-Headless-Server) to attach to remote RPC node and use GraphQL
> query to get data from server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Launcher also has embedded [`Headless Server`](#2.2.-Headless-Server) to read and sign blockchain-related data from the Nine Chronicles network.
```

The embedded headless itself doesn't connect or communicate with an RPC node, but it helps communicate by providing a signing interface for the launcher and sometimes works as a standalone RPC server (which we typically call as a local mode).

`Unity Client` is what you play actual NineChronicles game. All user interactions occurs in this player.  
`Unity Client` is connected to [`Headless Server`](#2.2.-Headless-Server) using RPC protocol to send/receive data from
blockchain and render new states to the screen.

# 3. Repository and Library Structure

![NineChronicles Repository Structure](images/0002_repository_structure.png)

Each part of NineChronicles has common libraries to communicate each other.  
In this chapter, We'll check the core libraries to run NineChronicles.  
After read this chapter, you would know where to see and touch to modify NineChronicles as you wish.

## 3.1. 9c-launcher

#### [GitHub repository](https://github.com/planetarium/9c-launcher)

The repository for [`Launcher`](#2.1.-Launcher). You can build and run your own NineChronicles launcher using this repository.  
`9c-launcher` is mostly written in TypeScript and you can easily build and run launcher following [Getting Started](https://github.com/planetarium/9c-launcher/wiki/Getting-Started).  
If you build and run your launcher with default setting, the launcher will attach to NineChronicles mainnet(the production server).  

> Otherwise you can attach to different(maybe your own) blockchain network, you can achieve that through editing `config.json` to change target network.

Reviewer 2: A link to the config.json doc will be helpful.

## 3.2. NineChronicles.Headless

#### [GitHub repository](https://github.com/planetarium/NineChronicles.Headless)

The repository for [`Headless Server`](#2.2.-Headless-Server). You can run your own blockchain node whether it is full node or not.  
`NineChronicles.Headless` is mostly written in C#. You can build and run your local headless server
following [Getting Started](https://github.com/planetarium/NineChronicles.Headless/wiki/Getting-Started).
You can create and run your own blockchain network/node with this repository. Please
check [Create new genesis block](https://github.com/planetarium/NineChronicles.Headless/wiki/Create-new-genesis-block)
to create your own genesis block for your own network.

### 3.2.1. Remark
#### 3.2.1.1. Options for headless node
There are several functions can be run using this repository.

- Peer: save & spread available node addresses.

> - RPC server: Receives action data from client and make transaction to spread to peers.

Reviewer: The headless doesn't make transaction. It just receives transactions and broadcast the transactions to peers. So...
```suggestion
- RPC server: Receives transactions from client and broadcast them to peers.
```

Author: Oh, it's my bad. Thanks for pointing out

> - GraphQL server: Returns data from blockchain to answer incoming GQL query.

Reviewer: GraphQL server also provides the node's status and APIs to create actions. But I'm not sure that we can recommend `actionQuery` 🤔 So at this time...
```suggestion
- GraphQL server: Provides blockchain data and the node's status to answer incoming GQL query.
```

Author: > GraphQL server also provides the node's status and APIs to create actions. But I'm not sure that we can recommend `actionQuery` thinking So at this time...

I also concern about `mutation` type query. But that is there and we should not hide those things because it has possibility of abusing.
I didn't mentioned at my first version because I forgot :rofl:

> - Miner: The actual block miner. Collects transactions from peer nodes and verify tx.s to mine new block.

Reviewer: Maybe typo? 
```suggestion
- Miner: The actual block miner. Collects transactions from peer nodes and verify txs to mine a new block.
```

Author: I think `tx.` is a abbreviation(약자) so `.` is required in my knowledge.
`a` new block is good point.

You can run one or more functionalities at the same time in one node.
See [README](https://github.com/planetarium/NineChronicles.Headless/blob/main/README.md) for all available options.

#### 3.2.1.2. Usage of MagicOnion
To make gRPC connection between Unity client and .NET server, we chose [MagicOnion](https://cysharp.github.io/MagicOnion/) as an implementation.  

> This is well-made server to meet our requirements, and distributed under [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).  

Reviewer: > MagicOnion is a modern RPC framework for .NET platform that provides bi-directional real-time communications such as [SignalR](https://github.com/aspnet/AspNetCore/tree/master/src/SignalR) and [Socket.io](https://socket.io/) and RPC mechanisms such as WCF and web-based APIs.

https://github.com/cysharp/magiconion

```suggestion
This is well-made RPC framework to meet our requirements, and distributed under [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).  
```

#### [GitHub repository](https://github.com/planetarium/NineChronicles)

The unity client to play NineChronicles Game. You need `Unity` to build and run this game on your local computer.  
Following [Getting Started](https://github.com/planetarium/NineChronicles/wiki/Get-Started), you can build and run your own NineChronicles client on your environment.  
If you want to enhance UX/UI or any user interactive properties, this is the right repository to dig.

### 3.3.1. Remark

#### 3.3.1.1. Unity version issue

Due to prevent unintended issue, we highly recommend to use Unity version as we wrote in the document.  
If you use later version instead noted version, you can meet a bunch of errors, and we cannot help at that situation.

#### 3.3.1.2. Select blockchain to attach

If you run your game using `Play` button on your Unity editor, It will run with its own internal blockchain network, not any existing external blockchain.  
To attach your client to mainnet or other network, you have to change client configurations.

## 3.4. Lib9c

#### [GitHub repository](https://github.com/planetarium/lib9c)

This is common library used broadly among NineChronicles game server and client.  

> This is [`Libplanet`](#3.5.-Libplanet) implementation to run NineChronicles game on libplanet blockchain network.  

Reviewer: In my thought, `Lib9c` is something like `the protocol of Nine Chronicles game` 🤔  I think this line needs others' opinions also.

My questions:
- `Libplanet` can be treated as blockchain network?
- `Libplanet` can be treated as an interface or a framework?

> Lib9c is a library that contains key implementations of Nine Chronicles, a decentralized RPG developed with Libplanet. Lib9c includes Nine Chronicle's key features like in-game decisions and data models, which can be used to implement game core capabilities. 

But I don't have a strong opinion about this so you can ignore this 🤔

In this library, you can see NineChronicles' status & action definitions and all game logics.  
If you want to mod game action and/or logic, this repository is the one.

## 3.5. Libplanet

#### [GitHub repository](https://github.com/planetarium/libplanet)

This is the very core library that is the blockchain protocol. Libplanet is written in C# and you can install it using [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Libplanet/) package.  
Everything to save and update is called `state`, and any type of state mutation is called `action`.  
You can see the library design, tools and all API references in [Libplanet Documentation](https://docs.libplanet.io/).
If you want to see the network structure, consensus algorithm and so on, you should dig this repository to meet what you seek.

### 3.5.1. Remark

#### 3.5.1.1. Difference between Libplanet and Lib9c

> - `Liblpanet` is the blockchain protocol and interface to run game on blockchain network.

Reviewer: Just typo
```suggestion
- `Libplanet` is the blockchain protocol and interface to run game on blockchain network.
```

> - `Lib9c` is the NineChronicles version implementation of `Libplanet`.

Reviewer 2: Lib9c isn't a reimplementation of Libplanet but a library containing most of the game logic. You could think of the headless as a wrapper around the Lib9c to provide interfaces such as CLI, GraphQL and MagicOnion.

Author: I thought that lib9c has implementation of `IAction` and sush things so I used the word `implementation`. So you mean lib9c is not a 9c specific implementation at all?
I think I'm still confused about this difference.
@BasixKOR Can you suggest better wording for this section? :pray:

Author: I'll use the README of both repositories at this moment.
